LICENSE INFORMATION

Program Name: HCL Connections v8.0

The following standard terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.

Limited use right

As described in the Master License Agreement ("MLA") available at: https://www.hcltechsw.com/wps/portal/resources/master-agreements and this License Information document, HCL grants Licensee a limited right to use the Program. The Program may also be referenced as the "Principal Program" herein. This right is limited to the level of Authorized Use, such as a Processor Value Unit ("PVU"), a Resource Value Unit ("RVU"), a Value Unit ("VU"), or other specified level of use, paid for by Licensee as evidenced in the Proof of Entitlement. Licensee's use may also be limited to a specified machine, or only as a Supporting Program, or subject to other restrictions. As Licensee has not paid for all of the economic value of the Program, no other use is permitted without the payment of additional fees. In addition, Licensee is not authorized to use the Program to provide commercial IT services to any third party, to provide commercial hosting or timesharing, or to sublicense, rent, or lease the Program unless expressly provided for in the applicable agreements under which Licensee obtains authorizations to use the Program. Additional rights may be available to Licensee subject to the payment of additional fees or under different or supplementary terms. HCL reserves the right to determine whether to make such additional rights available to Licensee.

Specifications

Program's specifications can be found in the collective Description and Technical Information sections of the Program's Announcement Letters.

Supporting Programs

The Program is licensed as a multi-product package and includes the Supporting Programs identified below. Licensee is authorized to install and use such Supporting Programs only to support Licensee's use of the Principal Program under this License Information document and MLA and within the limits of the Proofs of Entitlement for the Program (unless broader rights are provided elsewhere in this License Information document). The phrase "to support Licensee's use" would include only those uses that are necessary or otherwise directly related to a licensed use of the Principal Program or another Supporting or Bundled Program. The Supporting Programs may not be used for any other purpose. Licensee is not authorized to transfer or remarket the Supporting Programs separate from the Principal Program. A Supporting Program may be accompanied by license terms, and those terms, if any, apply to Licensee's use of that Supporting Program. In the event of conflict, the terms in this License Information document supersede the Supporting Program's terms. When Licensee's right to use the Program expires or terminates, Licensee must discontinue use, destroy or promptly return all copies of the Supporting Programs to the party from whom Licensee acquired the Program. If Licensee downloaded the Supporting Programs, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee acquired the Program. If Licensee wishes to license the Supporting Programs for any use beyond the limits set forth above, please contact an HCL Sales Representative or the party from whom Licensee acquired the Program to obtain the appropriate license.

The following are Supporting Programs licensed with the Program:
IBM DB2 Enterprise Server Edition 11.1.4
IBM Security Directory Integrator Identity Edition 7.2
IBM MQEveryplace 2.0.2.13
IBM Security Directory Server 6.4
HCL Lotus Expeditor 6.2.1
IBM solidDB 7.0
IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment 8.5.5
HCL Forms Experience Builder 8.6
HCL Connections Docs 2.0.1

Permitted Components

Notwithstanding any provision herein, Licensee is permitted to use only the following components or functions of the identified Bundled or Supporting Program:
Community Surveys feature (of HCL Forms Experience Builder).

Prohibited Components

Notwithstanding any provision herein, Licensee is not authorized to use any of the following components or functions of the Program:
pureScale clustering technology (of IBM DB2 Enterprise Server Edition)
SQL Replication (of IBM DB2 Enterprise Server Edition)
IBM WebSphere MQ 8.0 (of IBM DB2 Enterprise Server Edition)
IBM Security Directory Server Proxy Server and White Pages application
Pass-through authentication (of IBM Security Directory Server)
Ability to record last successful authentication time stamp in user entries (of IBM Security Directory Server)
Advanced password policy rules (of IBM Security Directory Server)
IBM WebSphere eXtreme Scale (of IBM WebSphere Application Server)
Editor Application (of HCL Connections Docs)
Editor Extension (of HCL Connections Docs)
Editor Proxy (of HCL Connections Docs)

Components Not Used for Establishing Required Entitlements

When determining the number of entitlements required for Licensee's installation or use of the Program, the installation or use of the following Program components are not taken into consideration. In other words, Licensee may install and use the following Program components, under the license terms, but these components are not used to determine the number of entitlements required for the Program:
Guest Users

Source Components and Sample Materials

The Program may include some components in source code form ("Source Components") and other materials identified as "Sample Materials". Licensee may copy and modify Source Components and Sample Materials for internal use only provided such use is within the limits of the license rights under this License Information document and MLA, provided however that Licensee may not alter or delete any copyright information or notices contained in the Source Components or Sample Materials. HCL provides the Source Components and Sample Materials without obligation of support and "AS IS", WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Terms for Oracle Outside In Technology

The Programs licensed hereunder include Outside In filtering and document viewing technology (the "Outside In Technology") supplied by Oracle USA, Inc. ("Oracle"). The term "Outside In Technology" includes any technology licensed to Oracle by its suppliers. As used herein, the term "HCL supplier" shall be deemed to include Oracle and its suppliers. In addition to the terms and conditions of this License Information document and MLA, as a condition of using the Outside In Technology, Licensee specifically agrees as follows:
(1) Oracle USA, Inc. is a third party beneficiary hereto.
(2) Licensee may only transfer the Program by providing advance written notice to HCL and otherwise subject to the terms of the MLA.
(3) Licensee may not publish the results of benchmark tests run on the Outside In Technology without prior written permission.
(4) HCL may inform HCL suppliers of compliance verification results relating to such HCL suppliers' components.
(5) To the extent allowed under applicable law, the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act ("UCITA") does not apply.

Prohibited Uses

Licensee may not use or authorize others to use the Program, alone or in combination with other services or products, in support of any of the following high risk activities: design, construction, control, or maintenance of nuclear facilities, mass transit systems, air traffic control systems, automotive control systems, weapons systems, or aircraft navigation or communications, or any other activity where program failure could give rise to a material threat of death or serious personal injury.
Export and Import Restrictions

This Program may contain cryptography. Transfer to, or use by, users of the Program may be prohibited or subject to export or import laws, regulations or policies, including those of the United States Export Administration Regulations. Licensee assumes all responsibility for complying with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies regarding the export, import, or use of this Program, including but not limited to, U.S. restrictions on exports or re-exports. 

The following units of measure may apply to Licensee's use of the Program.

Authorized User

Authorized User ("A/U") is a unit of measure by which the Program can be licensed. An A/U is a unique person provided with credentials to access the Program. The Program may be installed on any number of computers or servers and each A/U may have simultaneous access to any number of instances of the Program at one time. 

The use of the Program by an A/U is only permitted with Authenticated Access. "Authenticated Access" shall mean the secured validation of a user's unique identity when accessing the Program. Licensee must obtain separate, dedicated entitlements for each A/U given access to the Program in any manner directly or indirectly (for example: via a multiplexing program, device, or application server) through any means. An entitlement for an A/U is unique to that A/U and may not be shared, nor may it be reassigned other than for the permanent transfer of the Authorized User entitlement to another person.

In addition to the above, the following terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program. The A/U entitlement includes access for Guest Users to HCL Connections servers deployed under this entitlement. Only an A/U may provide Guest Users access to the Program. "Guest Users" can be Anonymous Guests or Authenticated Guests.

An "Anonymous Guest" is a unique person, not employed or paid by, or acting on behalf of Licensee's enterprise, who is given access to the Program in any manner directly or indirectly (for example: via a multiplexing program, device, or application server) without verification of the user's unique identity. 

An "Authenticated Guest" is a unique person, not employed in, paid by, or acting on behalf of Licensee's enterprise, who is given access to the Program in any manner directly or indirectly (for example: via a multiplexing program, device, or application server) through any means by an A/U.

Processor Value Unit (PVU) 

Processor Value Unit (PVU) is a unit of measure by which the Program can be licensed. The number of PVU entitlements required is based on the processor technology and the number of processors made available to the Program. 
Licensee can deploy the Program using either:
1) Full Capacity licensing - Licensee must obtain PVU entitlements sufficient to cover all activated processor cores* in the physical hardware environment made available to or managed by the Program, except for those servers from which the Program has been permanently removed. 
2) Virtualization Capacity (Sub-Capacity) - When the Program is deployed in a virtualized environment as established by the processor vendor technology or using virtualization software, Licensee must obtain entitlements sufficient to cover all activated processor cores* made available to or managed by the Program.
* An Activated processor core is a processor core that is available for use in a physical or virtual server, regardless of whether the capacity of the processor core can be or is limited through virtualization technologies, operating system commands, BIOS settings, or similar restrictions.

Supporting Program Details:

HCL Forms Experience Builder
- Entitlement: No Metric 
-Use Limitations: Use by Principal Program

IBM DB2 Enterprise Server Edition
-Entitlement: No Metric
-Use Limitations: Use by Principal Program

"No Metric" means this Supporting Program may be installed on as many machines and used by as many persons as is reasonably necessary within the use limitations that apply to this Supporting Program.

"Use by Principal Program" means that the Supporting Program is provided exclusively for use by the Principal Program. Neither Licensee nor any application, programmer device is authorized to directly use or access the services of the Supporting Program except Licensee may access the Supporting Program to perform administrative functions for the Supporting Program such as backup, recovery and authorized configuration

IBM WebSphere Application Server

Mobile Toolkit

HCL has tested sample applications created with the mobile tools provided in the Program ("Mobile Tools") to determine if they will execute properly on certain versions of mobile operating system platforms from Apple (iOS), RIM (Blackberry) and Google (Android) (collectively "Mobile OS Platforms"), however, Mobile OS Platforms are provided by third parties, are not under HCL's control, and are subject to change without notice to HCL. As such, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary, HCL does not warrant that any applications or other output created using the Mobile Tools will execute properly on, interoperate with, or be compatible with any Mobile OS Platforms or mobile devices.
